---
layout: post
title: 'Finding Excitement in Uncertainty'
---
Growing up, I was always scared. The usual fears were there: spiders, monsters, heights; but mostly I was scared of growing up. The future was filled with uncertainty that I did not want to face. The thought of getting older terrified me, not for any specific reason other than not knowing what it would bring. 

It wasn’t until recently that I learned that there is excitement in uncertainty.

[!image] (https://giffiles.alphacoders.com/165/165052.gif)

All of a sudden, I can’t wait to go to university. The independence and ability to choose my own path is intimidating in a way that motivates me to be better. Overcoming a fear of the future can only happen through action. I can either choose to place the stepping stones now or find myself struggling to do so, five to ten years from now.

[!image] (https://i.pinimg.com/originals/f4/8d/0c/f48d0ceaf18a86d9073ead7c79860a67.gif)

I still sometimes find myself worrying, but I no longer let the feeling take over. Watching the people around me succeed and grow inspires me more than anything. My siblings, cousins, friends, and other family members have become my mentors. 

This journey has taught me that I am the only one who can decide what my future looks like, and though I'm indecisive, I trust myself more than anyone to ultimately make that decision when it comes to it.

A quote by Danny Kaye has stuck with me: “Life is a blank canvas, and you need to throw all the paint on it you can.” In other words, I am trying to fill my life with as many experiences as I can. This outlook has contributed greatly to my changed perspective. As much as I can hope to only have positive experiences, that would be unrealistic and only make it more difficult to try new things. Negative experiences are painful and oftentimes discouraging, but I strongly believe that there is always a lesson to be learned from them. If I aim to only have positive experiences, I will miss out on the full picture of what life looks like.
